### Amazon EKS Resources
This directory contains sample logging and monitoring resources for Amazon EKS.

* [Amazon EKS Self-Managed Node Group](./amazon-eks-nodegroup.yaml) - This CloudFormation template creates a self-managed EKS node group for your EKS clusters.  The template adds permissions to the IAM role used by the underlying EKS nodes to includes policies for Amazon CloudWatch and AWS Systems Manager.  The template installs / updates the AWS Systems Manager agent for the EKS node.  The Amazon CloudWatch agent can be deployed to the EKS cluster as a [DaemonSet](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/Container-Insights-setup-metrics.html).  You can use this template to incorporate additional Amazon EC2 management components and configuration as necessary by your organization.

* [Amazon EKS Launch Template for Managed Node Groups](./amazon-eks-nodegroup.yaml) - This CloudFormation template creates an Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling launch template that can be used with managed node groups.  The template installs / updates the AWS Systems Manager agent for the EKS node.  The Amazon CloudWatch agent can be deployed to the EKS cluster as a [DaemonSet](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/Container-Insights-setup-metrics.html).   You can use this template to incorporate additional Amazon EC2 management components and configuration as necessary by your organization.

* [Sample Prometheus JMX example for EKS with Amazon CloudWatch](./prometheus_jmx) - This directory contains a working example for collecting prometheus metrics from a tomcat and nginx server via the Amazon CloudWatch agent.  See the [documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/ContainerInsights-Prometheus.html) for more details. 
